Reviewer 7 of ECC 2026 submission 701

Comments to the author
======================

The paper introduces a process change detection method
based on a variant of the dynamic mode decomposition method
with recursive SVD and truncation. The detection algorithm
is presented and tested with two hypothetical examples and
a set of data from a real energy storage system failure.
The merit of the paper is that everything is presented in
an organized pattern. Despite this, the technical
contribution of the paper is a bit subtle to me. The DMD
method is clearly not the contribution of the paper, and
the modification of the DMD method in this paper is not
clear to me. I can only guess that the paper employs the
recursive SVD proposed by [10] for the SVD process of the
original DMD method. If this is indeed the case, the
authors may want to clarify this because, currently, this
part is in the “Preliminaries” section.

In the change point detection algorithm, what is the
temporal relationship between the base, test and learning
phases? Are these three windows attached to the previous
one consecutively? If this is the case, how do we make sure
that the behaviour inside the base window is normal, and
the changes happen in the test window, and the learning
window covers the normal behaviours of the new mode? The
unpresented convergence and stability analysis of the
detection framework is also confusing to me. Are these
results already established elsewhere, or do you omit the
proofs for a reason?

The experimental validation part contains two simulations.
The authors may want to clarify this because simulations
are substantially different from experiments. The plots
need to be properly labelled. For example, the red lines in
the plot are not explained. In Fig. 2, the two colours in
the first subplot are both labelled as “X”. In Fig. 3, the
lines in different colours are not explained at all. The
use of the term “score” is confusing. I am not sure if this
is the same as the so-called “statistic” as in (15). If
this is the case, please keep the terminology consistent;
otherwise, please define it properly before using.

In terms of the writing style, I suggest that the authors
double-check all abbreviations to make sure that they are
defined before using them. There are also some reused
symbols like “a” and “b”, first defined as DMD mode
parameters in Section II-A, and then as the hyperparameters
for change point detection in Section III-A.
