Reviewer 2 of ECC 2026 submission 701

Comments to the author
======================

The paper proposes the use of Dynamic Mode Decomposition
for changepoint detection, and shows 3 examples of
increasing level of realism to validate its functionality.
Overall, the paper is well structured and written, and
enjoyable to read, so I can recommend its approval. My main
criticism towards the paper is the lack of a better insight
on the limitations of the method: what magnitude of changes
can be detected depending on the rank and window sizes. In
general, I feel the authors have do not address randomness
enough: it is included in the examples, and considered in
the parameter $delta$ of the detection guarantee, but I
think it should have a more central role in a changepoints
detection algorithm.
My second criticism is towards the claim that statistic
$Q_k$ obtained from the algorithm is interpretable: for an
user, there is no explanation on what values to expect a
priori, and interpreting them is then impossible, beyond
the knowledge that higher means more likely to be a
changepoints. The paper makes a good point that historical
values of Q_k can be used to create percentiles, but that
can be said about many other methods.
My comments for each section can be found below:

= I Introduction
- The paper does a good job at introducing first subspace
based changepoints detection and then online DMD for change
detection. However, there is not that much motivation about
detection of changepoints.

= II Preliminaries
- The way DMD with its extension is introduce, starting
from the simplest tecnique and building from there, is a
very good idea, and does a great job at introducing the
tool.
- When mentioning DMD with control, I feel it is not a good
idea to mention both cases of input being known or unknown,
as the reader might feel confused on which case applies to
the paper.
- Time delay embeddings seem fairly important in later
sections, but they are not mentioned at all here. It makes
it hard then to see how they are introduced in DMD.
- Too many hats and tildes, I think the authors could make
the meaning of each matrix more clear.

= III Algorithm
- The algorithm is clearly explained, both in the text
description and in the algorithm environment.
- The claim about the detection delay is dubious, specially
in the use of "exactly". As mentioned before, the kind of
randomness affecting the signal is not really mentioned. In
general, I would expect that in the presence of noise the
peak of Q_k will not necessary happen c steps after the
changepoints, but close to it.
- The interpretability is also questionable: pretty much
every method that relies on residuals can claim this, but
without a way of scaling the metric, it is hard to make any
interpretation from the numbers.
- The parameter selection guidelines are really
appreciated.
- The detection guarantees do not seem very specific
without any information about delta, tau and alpha.

= IV Experimental Validation
- The approach of the authors to start with a synthetic
case and move towards a real one is a very good decision.
- The plots, on the other hand, are not that useful. A
parameter benchmark could be more informative to understand
the effect of the different hyperparameters.

= V/VI Dicussion and Conclusion
- The comparisons are not very detailed, but they fact that
thay are contributes positively to the paper.
- Typo: sysntem
- I did not feel the applicability part gave any
interesting insights.


Overall, the paper is a nice read, the approach is valuable
and is very well introduced, and the examples given seem
relevant.